Update Indexer Section (#532)
aptos-labs/developer-docs: apps/nextra/pages/en/build/indexer/architecture.mdx

---

import { ThemedImage } from '@components/index'
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Indexer Architecture

> The Aptos Indexer stores data from on-chain (via the Transaction Stream Service), the Aptos Name Service (ANS), and other data through custom processors. Then, apps can query that data via the Indexer API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Aptos Indexer stores data from on-chain (via the Transaction Stream Service). It indexes basic data, such as transactions, fungible assets, tokens, collections, ANS (Aptos Name Service) names. Then, apps can query that data via the Indexer API. 
```

2. Aggregate data - Ex. [How many delegators are in this staking pool?](./get-delegators.mdx)
3. Specific info best searched via query - Ex. [What NFTs does an account own?](./get-nfts.mdx)

### High Level Breakdown

Here is how the Indexer creates that API at a high-level: 

<center>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="Signed Transaction Flow"
    sources={{
      light: '/docs/indexer-architecture-light.svg',
      dark: '/docs/indexer-architecture-dark.svg',
    }}
  />
</center>

The Indexer uses the [Transaction Stream Service](./txn-stream.mdx) and [Custom Processors](./custom-processors.mdx) to update a database with rich tables. Then it exposes an API for Aptos apps to access the consolidated data.

For situations where you need to go beyond the Aptos hosted Indexer API data, you may need to customize parts of the Indexer stack. For example, you may need to:

1. Get access to different types of data (so want to create a [custom processor](./custom-processors.mdx)).
2. Store additional information beyond what the Aptos Labs hosted Indexer API is saving (so need to [host your own Indexer](./self-hosted.mdx)).

> 3. Change how transactions are processed (so need to update the [Transaction Stream Service](./txn-stream.mdx)).

Reviewer: For all of these cases mentioned, they should create a custom processor.

They should only host their own Indexer API if they want to run the same indexer processors as us and provide the API as a service. 
They should only host their own Transaction Stream if they want to provide the stream as a service.
